>> Hi, I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill.
And I want to welcome
you to our program today.
I am so excited.
We have a storyteller,
and his story
is about a journey
to self-healing.
Come join us, "Living in
Balance on Shakti-Hill."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Terry McBride is a
man with a purpose.
And his purpose is to share
his wisdom and his light,
because he has
been through pain.
He has been through tragedy.
And he has a success story.
And I love it.
So I am so pleased to
welcome Terry McBride.
Welcome.
>> Thanks, Georgia.
It's a delight to be here.
>> Well you know, you have
told me so many good stories,
I wish the camera had been
rolling while we were chatting
ahead of time.
But you did just mention
that you had 30 surgeries.
So you really do have a
story of self-healing.
Tell us what has
happened to Terry McBride
and what brought you
to where you are today.
>> In a nutshell.
>> Yep.
>> I had hurt my
back when I was 22.
I had a spinal fusion.
Somehow during
surgery, the spine
got infected with
the E. coli bacteria.
And over the next
11 years, I had
a total of 30
surgical procedures
dealing with the infection.
>> Oh, wow.
>> And around the 10th one I was
transferred to the University
of Washington Hospital,
big teaching hospital,
because it kept spreading.
So my physician
referred me there
because they had all the experts
under one roof kind of thing.
And the night of
the 10th surgery,
they came in and
said we're going
to do this very radical
debridement, which essentially,
they're going to cut out
all the infected material.
And they said when
we're done with this,
you're going to lose the use
of your right leg, probably
the use of your left leg.
There's a good chance you'll
lose the control of your bowels
and bladder, and you'll
probably be sexually impotent.
>> Oh, wow.
They couldn't have really
given a worse scenario.
>> And they weren't
being negative.
What they were
saying was this is
the worst case of osteomyelitis
of the spine we've ever seen.
It's in your abdomen.
It's in your pelvic area.
We think there's a
hole in your colon.
And it's down your back, your
buttocks into the upper thighs
as it's gone down
the sciatic nerves.
And we're going to
open you from the front
and the back and the bottom.
And when we're done, you just
cannot expect to come out
of this one whole.
>> Not what wanted to hear.
Not at all, oh no.
>> No.
>> And now today, you're
fine and you're perfect.
And this was at
the 10th surgery.
So a lot happened in between.
>> It did.
That was when--
I think an awful
lot of the audience,
and you and I, can
remember when we show up
and we're these happy
little kids going here I am.
And we learn real
early in school
that the teacher supposedly
knows more about us than we do.
And we allow them to tell
whether we're a good student,
whether we're good in math, or
good in sports or music, that.
And I'd always sort of looked
outside of myself for who I am.
And when I showed
up and was sick,
I just expected
somebody else to fix me.
And that had always
happened before.
But then all of the sudden,
I got one of those--
you know when a
person has surgery
and they say there's
a small chance you
could get an infection,
well, I was the small chance.
And then if you
have an infection,
there's a small chance
this could be real serious
and we might not get rid of it.
And so I kept buying it until
one day, they pushed too far
and said, you're going to
lose the use of your body.
And I said, no.
I'm not going to
listen to you anymore.
And I started studying.
I didn't-- I started the books
and the people that you've had
on your show and you
talked about, I mean,
I remember when I've read
some of their books and gone,
[GASP] that's me!
I can be well too.
If they can do it, I can do it.
And so that was the journey of
self discovery, which is true.
>> Yes.
And you really said, now,
what I want to share,
because it's the story--
and that's where I got the
material for my life from.
But what you want to share is
the principles that you learned
can be, then, used in
every part of your life.
And every person can
benefit from the principles.
>> Yes.
I think an awful lot of
us today have grown up
believing that we're our stuff.
There are so many labels.
I mean, all I do is I
travel around now and speak
at metaphysical organizations.
And I think some of the
metaphysicians I meet
ought to paste Velcro on the
back of their hand and Velcro
in the middle of their forehead.
And then when you say,
so how are things,
they can throw their
hand up and it'll stick.
You know, oh, I'm having
wonderful opportunities
for growth.
And there's no joy
in that, you know?
>> Yes, OK.
>> And what I began to see
was there was a consistency,
that the great
spiritual teachers--
you know that Jewish mystic
2,000 years ago when he said
all things are possible
if you believe they are?
Start at the idea that
consciousness creates reality.
And then of course now we
have wonderful teachers
like Deepak Chopra that says
the body regenerates itself
every 12 months.
And it doesn't have
to regenerate itself
the way it used to.
We can make new decisions
about how it's to regenerate.
And it was those
kinds of things--
although Deepak hadn't
written his book back then--
but there were still
great books that
spoke to something within me
that wasn't my disease, that
wasn't my infection, something
that was in me that that wasn't
my propensity towards drama,
something that was in me that I
could get in touch
with and use that
to step forth newly each day and
begin to create a new reality.
And that was out of choice.
>> Yes.
And you said, and I liked your
line, everyone can be free.
And that's one of those
thoughts that I think
we need to hold sometimes.
Everyone can be free.
And how would you
embellish that?
>> First of all, when I
say everyone can be free,
sometimes people will
come up and say, oh,
I've got a friend and they're in
the hospital and they're doing
this.
And I want you to go tell
them that they can get well.
And I ask him, have they
read any of these books?
Are they into this?
Oh no.
Oh, no they haven't.
Well, I wouldn't go in there
and say, well you can be free.
You know, you are free.
But what we'd
gently talk about is
there is a possibility
that you can be free.
And what that's about is I
can change my belief systems,
I mean simplistically.
I can change my attitudes
and, therefore, approach life
from a new point of view.
And that's where to
start in the beginning.
I mean, I don't
walk up to people
who've never been exposed,
never had any demonstrations
in their life, and say, you know
that you can create reality,
because that's like--
but it starts out,
well you know you
can make a little
difference in your life.
And then they go
practice these things
and they make a
little difference.
And it's like wow, I wonder
if I practice them some more
if I can make a bigger
difference and a bigger
difference?
And then one day it's
like, I think I can begin
to make my dreams come true.
And that's the moving from
what Henry David Thoreau said,
people lead lives
of quiet desperation
where they think they're
stuck in their jobs, stuck
in their health, stuck in
relationships that consistently
don't work, to a new
awareness about self
that allows them to make
their dreams come true.
And then life becomes joy.
>> Well, and what I like about
what you're saying is that
books are there to
empower, to inspire.
There is wonderful information.
And it's not all brand new.
But there are new
approaches to it.
And you never know
what just might
resonate with each person.
But it is the old
universal truths
that these things are so.
>> And that point
you made, you know,
you'll never know what
resonates with a person--
I mean, if somebody
goes into the library
and looks at the books,
there's all these list books.
The 10 this, the nine this, the
20 this, the 40 this, the 20--
and I mean, you look at
it and there's 27 books.
You add up their
lists and there's
675 things I need to do.
And sometimes people
get discouraged.
And the thing for me was
to read through books
and then just be aware.
And when there was something
in there that was important,
well you had the angel
sitting over your shoulder.
Sometimes it was as if
there was an angel going
this was a good one.
And other times it
came from within that
went [GASP] this one I can use.
But it's like that, to explore
these ideas and be aware.
And all the great
spiritual teachings
say when you're honestly
seeking, you're not alone.
>> You know, you
created this pretty--
in a very difficult
situation for yourself.
You went through 30 surgical
procedures to get there.
>> Yes.
>> Now, were you resisting?
Were you a little bit of
a slow learner, Terry,
because you see--
>> Look, people ask me,
why did you have 30?
And I said, hello.
Or you know--
>> At a point.
But you really do have to walk.
You have to walk through what
is your journey, do you not?
>> Yes.
And I think, you
know there is an idea
in a lot of the literature that
talks about group consciousness
or race consciousness,
that kind of thing.
I don't think there were
as many-- at least I
didn't read about them--
as many people who
beat million-to-one
odds back in the '60s.
I'm sure they did it, but
it wasn't out there as much.
And so part of the
wrestling match
was I felt like I was all alone.
I felt there was a
divine presence with me.
And I call that presence god.
And I know people who
call it something else.
And we're talking the
same thing, I think.
But as far as how to apply
these principles of choice
and create a new reality, I
felt like I was all alone.
And I think one of
the beauties of shows
like this is that it allows
people to begin to experience,
I'm not alone.
If she can do it, I can do it.
If he can do it, I can do it,
because they were just like me.
And they started
from not necessarily
in the best household
and the best childhood.
But they learned
through themselves.
And it took a while.
I didn't get-- I was
sick for 11 years.
>> Yes.
But this story has this
wonderful and happy ending.
And its beginning too, because
you are sharing your story.
And it is true.
Because we get a lot of email
from our audience and things,
and I will get
someone who will say,
I was inspired from this show.
And that's why what
you're doing here
is you're sharing
what is a miracle.
I mean, you are healed.
>> Yes.
>> I mean, you look
really healthy.
>> I am very healthy.
I'm 55.
I don't-- with all
those surgeries,
I don't have a bad back.
I'm not recovering
from a bad back.
And I haven't learned to
live within my limitations.
I don't have any.
>> If you will stay tuned, we
will be right back with Terry
McBride.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If you are just
joining us, we're
talking with Terry McBride
and he's telling us
a terrible and wonderful story.
And the terrible part
and the wonderful part
is that you've been through
it and you are doing--
you're sharing your light now.
And there is a principle
by which you live.
And I like this one.
I wanted you to
embellish, if you would.
Eliminate negative emotions
and limiting decisions.
OK, tell me about that.
>> What I think--
how I hold negative emotions
are if we don't learn
how to resolve, like say
anger or fear or guilt
or those kinds of
unworthiness, then when
we're in a situation
when anger comes up,
so will all the rest of it.
It's like when
people are in there
and they feel an anger
that's much bigger
than the current situation.
There are some
wonderful techniques--
and I wouldn't presume to
say that the ones I teach are
the only ones--
to allow us to get so
that our past is not
burdened with the emotions.
Like when I talk about my
surgeries and talk about what
happened-- and some of
them were very radical--
but I don't have an
emotional charge.
I don't sit around
and go, (WEEPY VOICE)
oh, I remember
when they did that.
I mean, I can remember
But I've eliminated
this feeling.
>> Oh, I understand
exactly what you mean,
because it's almost like if
you were sharing that with me,
I could feel your pain.
I mean literally, it
is the kind of thing
that that just
goes out from you.
And everyone around
you still knows
if you're holding the
anger, the upset, right?
>> And I think some people, when
they talk, they still have it.
And when people walk
away, I don't know
that they walk away inspired.
They feel filled with pain,
and boy, wasn't that terrible.
So I think we can get rid
of that, which then allows
us to move into our lives--
and I use the term
joy and delight,
but in the middle of it, I
wasn't joyful and delightful.
But at least I wasn't
carrying this heavy stuff.
And the idea of limit--
getting rid of
limiting decisions
are things like people
grow up in an environment
where a little
girl's growing up.
And the people around
are saying you know,
everybody in our family is fat.
We're probably--
you know, you're
probably going to have fat.
And so at some little age,
this little girl goes,
I'm probably going to be fat.
Then later, she's dealing with
weight and dealing with weight
and dealing with
weight and dealing
with weight, when at
an unconscious level,
she has made a
decision, I'm fat.
And so there are
techniques out there
where we can eliminate
those negative emotions
and limiting decisions
so I can start fresh.
And this is the idea that we
don't have to be our past.
>> OK, what is your favorite
simple technique to get rid
of negative emotions?
How can-- can you
share something
that's easy just
to peel something,
to allow something to go?
>> There's a wonderful
discipline called
neurolinguistic programming.
Some guys started it 20
years ago with the idea--
and they brought a bunch of
techniques under an umbrella.
And most of the techniques
were already out there.
It wasn't like they discovered
a whole bunch of new things.
And one of the things in there
is called timeline therapy.
And we don't need
to go into it now.
But the idea is we can
move back in our memory.
If we get quiet, get
in touch with that I
call it the spiritual
aspect of self or our center
or whatever that label
would be for our audience,
and move back before that
thing happened, and we
can get in touch with a part
of us that isn't our anger,
isn't our fear,
isn't the decision.
And if it's done--
so a person practices it.
They can actually
go and, many times,
remember when they
made the decision,
money is going to be a problem.
Health is going to be a problem.
And if they move
back before that,
it's like the unconscious
mind will just let it go.
>> So if you can connect
to when it wasn't an issue?
>> Yes.
>> OK, so you just have to go
back in this timeline therapy.
I like that.
>> Yeah, and there are
wonderful other therapies, too.
I'm not saying that's the--
>> That's one.
>> Yeah, that's one of them.
>> That's an example.
>> And the idea is to allow
consciousness to move us
to a place where we say, I
remember when I wasn't this.
And what it happens is it takes
the emotional charge off of it.
And then we get to-- we're
free to make a new decision.
>> Now the other
thing you mentioned,
what you're calling
limiting decisions,
that's like the programming that
we've accepted that we are this
or that there isn't
enough or that--
is that what you're
talking about with those?
>> Yes.
I mean, how many
times have we talked
to our friends who
are in relationships,
and they say my
relationships work
great for about six months,
and then after six months,
they just fall apart?
And they go along and they
get in another relationship
and it falls apart.
And if you ask them, how
do you do relationships,
they say well they're
fine for about six months,
and they fall apart,
well, that's a decision--
>> That you've made.
>> --that we've made
based on my past.
The idea is we'll
go look at my past
and we've put enough checkmarks.
And when I get enough checkmarks
underneath this thing,
then that's who I am.
And we're so busy
being co-dependent,
the product of a dysfunctional
family, you know,
be careful of the small
self and the saboteur within
and the ego that will
separate us from our divine.
We're so busy with all
that stuff we forget
that we have divine authority.
>> Yes, OK.
So we need to remember
we have divine authority.
I like that.
>> I think that's what the
great scriptures were saying.
>> And also really listen
to what we're saying,
if we are doing this negative
self-fulfilling prophecy.
>> Yes.
>> We go to lunch and talk about
how terrible the opposite sex
is and how relationships
never work.
And then we go on
a date that night
and find out that
they're terrible
and our relationships
don't work.
And they go, I wonder why?
>> You ask a very
important question.
And I saw this in the
material about you.
And I can't wait to
find your answer.
And the question is, who
do you think you are?
What's the answer?
>> Around the 18th surgery,
I was sent to a psychiatrist
in the University of Washington
because I would not buy
into-- by then I
had a colostomy.
And they said I was going to
have it the rest of my life.
They said I was going to
probably be in a wheelchair,
have severe--
and I have letters
from my doctors
to the insurance company
saying, because every time they
do surgery, the
insurance company says
when are you going to
be done, and they'd
write letters back saying,
he's never going to be done.
This is non-curable.
He's going to have the
colostomy the rest of his life.
He's going to have significant
permanent disability.
And he sat down and he said,
if you will come work with me,
I can assist you to face the
reality of your colostomy
without your anger.
And I said, I
don't want to learn
how to face the
reality of having
a colostomy without anger.
I want to be able to go
to the bathroom the way
I used to go the bathroom.
And he said, who do
you think you are?
And through this
discussion about--
and I would argue and
try and quote scripture,
and he would say
look, I know you're--
it says here you abuse
your pain meds sometimes.
It's like-- and when I went
back, what I realized was
I thought I was my past.
I thought I was my infection.
I went to meetings and
talked about my infection.
I had names for it.
I spent all of my time
dealing with my infection.
I didn't spend any time
dealing with my magnificence.
And when he said, who
do you think you are,
it was who do you
think you are that you
can beat million-to-one odds?
And that's that oh!
I must be that-- if
I'm going to do that,
if all things are possible,
if I believe they are,
then I must be that
thing that's sometimes
called a spiritual being.
I must be that essence
that isn't my past.
I have a past, but that
doesn't mean it's me.
It's that kind of thing.
I'm a spiritual being living
in a spiritual universe
and I'm governed
by spiritual laws.
And from that, I get
to make up reality.
So I had all the tools.
You know, I had goals
and affirmations
and creative visualizations
and imaging and breath
in through my nose and
out through my mouth
and raise my kundalini energy.
And I ohmed until my lips
almost fell off kind of thing.
And nothing had happened.
And what I realized was it was I
was still holding me as limited
in my stuff.
And I'll go use these, and
maybe someday a white light
will shoot through the
window and I'll be healed.
And what I got was, if
you're going to be healed,
you have to believe
you're going to be healed.
And it starts with who
do you think you are?
>> Yes.
And that was that
shift in consciousness.
>> That was the shift that then
allowed me to use the tools
that I'd been reading for so
long and go and use them with
some authority rather
than my fingers crossed.
I could go use imaging
techniques, if you will,
using my imagination
about my body,
and know that my body would
respond and create itself
a different way.
Why?
Because I have-- I'm not--
I'm hesitating on
the words because I
don't want to say this is
the only way to hold that,
or this is.
But I think the key
in really applying
these techniques starts with
who do you think you are?
>> And the answer is really what
you have learned as a spiritual
being, like who am I and
what power do I have?
And what am I going
to choose to be?
>> Yes.
>> OK, so that's where you
as the co-creator come in.
But you did all your
homework before that.
>> And I applied the principles.
I mean, even if I
was having a bad day,
I'd take my five minutes
and write my affirmations
if that was the thing I
was using at that time.
I'd take my 10 minutes and
try and imagine health.
I'd take-- I didn't
just sit around
and say, well I
tried it yesterday.
It didn't work, so I quit.
How come me?
Poor me.
>> Now, you are writing a book.
>> Yes.
>> And you have a working title.
>> And would you
share that with us?
>> The title is,
"The Hell I Can't."
And it comes from the
night of the 10th surgery
when these loving,
caring physicians
came in and said
we've got x-rays
and we're going
to do this thing.
And gently-- I mean,
they really did.
The guy who was my surgeon
was real kind of stoic.
This was back in
the '60s and '70s,
before they had some of
the interpersonal skills.
And he sat down next to
my bed and took my hand,
and he said son, we don't
know how severe this damage
is going to be.
But what we do know is you
cannot expect to come out
of this one whole.
>> So that was--
>> And he was trying to
share with his belief.
I've been around a long
time, and I'm telling you
you're going to have
some damage out of this.
I just don't know how big it's--
and when I kept thinking about
that, it was just one more
time when my teacher was going
to tell me don't try
and go into sciences,
or my coach said
don't be an athlete,
or don't dream too much,
don't risk too much.
You might lose.
Don't try to be
somebody you're not.
And it was, you can't
come out of this whole.
And finally from
within me, this--
it's like, the hell I can't!
And that's what started
me on the journey.
>> Wow.
I just think that is
wonderful because you
had to pay such a heavy
price to come so far.
But now as you told me
what we would talk about,
you said I just want to
share these principles.
I just want to share
this good story.
And so you're really sharing
some real powerful information
to people, Terry McBride.
>> I'll bet you that everybody
watching your show has seen
a one where the
show touches them.
And from within
them, that spark they
talk about that's always within
here, that it gets fanned.
And they go I can do it!
And that's what it's about, that
we have each other to inspire
one another.
>> Well, just bless you.
And thank you for sharing your
wisdom and your light with us.
>> Thank you, Georgia.
>> That was wonderful.
And if you would like to be in
touch with us, or through us
with Terry, stay tuned.
We'll let you know how you can.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The question was, who
do you think you are?
And you're the one that
has the answer to that.
And I hope you are
answering that you're
a loving, beautiful,
spiritual being that's healthy
and living in balance
in mind, body, spirit.
Until next time, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill.
May you be well,
happy, and peaceful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]